DOC-9214 udfs for query (#2513)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/guides/pages/javascript-udfs/calling-javascript-udf.adoc

= Calling a JavaScript UDF
:description: Calling a JavaScript function from N1QL.
:page-pagination: 
:page-edition: Enterprise Edition
:page-topic-type: guide
:page-toclevels: 2

[abstract]
{description}

== Introduction

A JavaScript function can be called like any other N1QL function using a suitable N1QL statement.
The Javascript function is not called directly; it is called through a N1QL reference function.

> See xref:javascript-udfs/creating-javascript-library.adoc[]

Reviewer: We wouldn't normally add a link to an adjacent how-to guide — the pagination links already do this.

== Calling the Reference function

A reference function is called through the Query Workbench, the REST API, or the CBQ shell.

[tabs]
====
Query Workbench::
+
--
. Click on menu:Workbench[] to access the Query Editor.
+

> image::javascript-udfs/workbench-menu-item.png[alt="select Workbench menu item"]

Reviewer: Delete this. For a how-to guide, we have to assume that they already know how to access the Query Workbench. Otherwise every guide would be as long as your arm. If necessary, users can access this information from the "Before You Begin" section at the start of each how-to guide.

> . Enter an {sqlpp} statement to call your function:

Reviewer: I think we have to assume that SQL++ is pronounced "sequel plus plus", rather than "es queue ell plus plus". Otherwise we're getting into the realms where transclusion meets morphosyntax, which AsciiDoc is really _not_ set up to cope with 😉 

```suggestion
. Enter a {sqlpp} statement to call your function:
```

+

> image::javascript-udfs/add-statement-in-editor.png[ ,600, alt="adding statement to query editor"]

Reviewer: We always use a code listing for the Query Workbench examples, rather than an image, so that users can copy and paste the example straight in. The example file should be the same file as the one used for the cbq example. If necessary, use tags to exclude any cbq commands.

. Set the `context` to `unset` so that we can run the query under the global context.
+

> image::javascript-udfs/setting-context.png[alt="setting the context to unset"]

Reviewer: We have a common image file and standard wording for this.

Author: Where is that exactly?

I've found https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/tools/query-workbench.html#query-context

Is that it?

Now press the btn:[Execute] button to run the statement.

> The statement will, making a call to the JavaScript function and return a result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The statement makes a call to the JavaScript function and returns a result:
```

.Result
[source, json]
----
include::example$javascript-udfs/execute-get-business-days-response.jsonc[]
----
--

REST API::
+
--
Open a command shell and execute the following command:

[source, console]
----
include::example$javascript-udfs/execute-javascript-function.sh[]
----

> include::partial$javascript-udfs/execute-sqlpp-result-explanation.adoc[]

Reviewer: We wouldn't normally go into the explanations of the metrics block here: this is covered elsewhere.

--

CBQ Shell:: 
+
--
include::partial$javascript-udfs/start-cbq-shell-instructions.adoc[]
. Enter the following command to execute the query:
[source, console]
----
include::example$javascript-udfs/execute-javascript-function.n1sql[]
----
include::partial$javascript-udfs/execute-sqlpp-result-explanation.adoc[]
--
====

> 

Reviewer: Add a link to [User-Defined Functions](https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/userfun.html) reference page
